add info about custom latency buckets (#4236)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/operations/observability/metrics/metrics-overview.md

The `excludeVerbs` option allows you to exclude specific HTTP verbs from being reported in the metrics. This can be useful in high-performance applications where memory savings are critical.

### Examples of excluding HTTP verbs in metrics

Here are some examples demonstrating how to exclude HTTP verbs in Dapr for managing HTTP metrics.

#### Default - Include HTTP verbs

Configuration:
```yaml
http:
  excludeVerbs: false
```

Metrics generated:
```
dapr_http_server_request_count{app_id="order-service",method="GET",path="/orders",status="200"} 1
dapr_http_server_request_count{app_id="order-service",method="POST",path="/orders",status="200"} 1
```

In this example, the HTTP method is included in the metrics, resulting in a separate metric for each request to the `/orders` endpoint.

#### Exclude HTTP verbs

Configuration:
```yaml
http:
  excludeVerbs: true
```

Metrics generated:
```
dapr_http_server_request_count{app_id="order-service",method="",path="/orders",status="200"} 2
```

In this example, the HTTP method is excluded from the metrics, resulting in a single metric for all requests to the `/orders` endpoint.

### Configuring Custom Latency Buckets

> By default, Dapr employs predefined latency buckets for histogram metrics, listed below in milliseconds:

Reviewer: Can you say what a latency bucket is? Is it the time period over which the metrics are gathered, so for the 1ms bucket it is gather all metrics every 1ms and the 1_000 bucket is gathering metrics every 1s (so it is less granular). Is that what they are?

Author: they are actually the bins in a [cumulative histogram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Histogram#Cumulative_histogram), that allows for fast quantile calculation.  The quantile is not exact (unless it lands at exactly at one of the bin edges) in the sense that the last bucket in your calculation you don't really know the exact point of each item in it but you can estimate.

So above it is very detail/precise between 1 and 10 ms, but less so on the upper values, but one could decide to have more detail at different ranges

```
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 13, 16, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, 65, 80, 100, 130, 160, 200, 250, 300, 400, 500, 650, 800, 1_000, 2_000, 5_000, 10_000, 20_000, 50_000, 100_000
```

These buckets provide detailed granularity for latency metrics but can result in high cardinality for certain values,

> where a simpler estimate might be adequate.

Reviewer: Simpler sampling rather than estimate?

To tailor the latency buckets according to your specific needs, modify the `spec.metrics.latencyDistributionBuckets`

> field within the Dapr Configuration resource that pertains to your application(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
field within the Dapr configuration resource for your application(s).
```

> The following example shows how to set custom latency buckets:

Reviewer: Describe what this example is showing. Is this saying that I have now reduced the number of latency buckets records metrics from the default values above ^^?

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: custom-metrics
spec:
    metrics:
        enabled: true
        latencyDistributionBuckets:
        - 10
        - 30
        - 40
        - 50
        - 70
        - 100
        - 150
        - 200
        - 500 

>         - 1000 # 1sec

Reviewer: This has no underscore (as the examples above). i.e. 1_000. Is that correct
And do these have to be on separate lines, or can they be separated by commas

Author: actually the underscore is wrong in yaml, but correct in go/python/other languages. let me fix

```

Depending on your specific requirements, you may find that you need either more or fewer buckets, or

> buckets with different values. The example provided illustrates a custom configuration consisting of 10 buckets with more

Reviewer: Ah! Move this higher up?
When you say lower range you mean longer time periods and hence not having to gather metrics every 1 ms. Is that what you mean?

Author: not really frequency of gathering metrics. I'll try to explain.

The `excludeVerbs` option allows you to exclude specific HTTP verbs from being reported in the metrics. This can be useful in high-performance applications where memory savings are critical.

### Examples of excluding HTTP verbs in metrics

Here are some examples demonstrating how to exclude HTTP verbs in Dapr for managing HTTP metrics.

#### Default - Include HTTP verbs

Configuration:
```yaml
http:
  excludeVerbs: false
```

Metrics generated:
```
dapr_http_server_request_count{app_id="order-service",method="GET",path="/orders",status="200"} 1
dapr_http_server_request_count{app_id="order-service",method="POST",path="/orders",status="200"} 1
```

In this example, the HTTP method is included in the metrics, resulting in a separate metric for each request to the `/orders` endpoint.

#### Exclude HTTP verbs

Configuration:
```yaml
http:
  excludeVerbs: true
```

Metrics generated:
```
dapr_http_server_request_count{app_id="order-service",method="",path="/orders",status="200"} 2
```

In this example, the HTTP method is excluded from the metrics, resulting in a single metric for all requests to the `/orders` endpoint.

### Configuring Custom Latency Histogram Buckets

> Dapr use cumulative histogram metrics to group latency values into buckets. By default, Dapr uses the following buckets to group latency values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dapr use cumulative histogram metrics to group latency values into buckets, where each bucket contains a count of the number of requests that had that latency plus all the requests with lower latency.

By default, Dapr groups request latency metrics into the following buckets:
```

```
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 13, 16, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, 65, 80, 100, 130, 160, 200, 250, 300, 400, 500, 650, 800, 1000, 2000, 5000, 10000, 20000, 50000, 100000
```

> These values are used to group latency values into the different bins (buckets) in cumulative fashion. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grouping latency values in a cumulative fashion allows buckets to be used or dropped as needed for increased or decreased granularity of data.
```

> For example is a request takes 3ms, it will be counted in the 3ms bucket, the 4ms bucket, the 5ms bucket, and so on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example if a request takes 3ms, it will be counted in the 3ms bucket, the 4ms bucket, the 5ms bucket, and so on.
```

> And if a request takes 10ms, it will be counted in the 10ms bucket, the 13ms bucket, the 16ms bucket, and so on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly, if a request takes 10ms, it will be counted in the 10ms bucket, the 13ms bucket, the 16ms bucket, and so on.
```

> After these two requests, the 10ms bucket will have a count of 2, and the 3ms bucket will have a count of 1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After these two requests have completed, the 3ms bucket will have a count of 1 and the 10ms bucket will have a count of 2, since both the 3ms and 10ms requests are included here. 
```

> After these two requests the bins will have the following values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will show up as follows:
```

|1|2|3|4|5|6|8|10|13|16|20|25|30|40|50|65|80|100|130|160| ..... | 100000 |
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|---|---|---|-------|--------|
|0|0|1|1|1|1|1| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2 | 2 | 2 | ..... | 2      |

> They are perfect to do quick calculation of percentiles, but they can be adjusted to better fit your needs, and also the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default number of buckets works well for most use cases, but can be adjusted as needed. Each request will create 34 different metrics, leaving this value to grow considerably for a large number of applications.
```

> current default number of values (34) results in high cardinality as each latency metric will create 34 different metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The more bins you define, the more accurate the percentiles will be, but the more memory will be used to store the metrics, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More accurate latency percentiles can be achieved by increasing the number of buckets. However, a higher number of buckets increases the amount of memory used to store the metrics, potentially negatively impacting your monitoring system. 

It is recommended to keep the number of latency buckets set to the default value, unless you are seeing unwanted memory pressure in your monitoring system. Configuring the number of buckets allows you to choose applications where you want to see more detail with a higher number of buckets, and where broader values are sufficient by reducing the buckets. Take note of the default latency values your applications are producing before configuring the number buckets as described below.
```

> that will also impact your monitoring system. The idea is to define the areas where you want to have more detail, and 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> where you can have less accuracy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> To tailor the latency buckets according to your specific needs, modify the `spec.metrics.latencyDistributionBuckets`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tailor the latency buckets to your needs, by modifying the `spec.metrics.latencyDistributionBuckets` field in the Dapr configuration spec for your application(s).
```

> field within the Dapr configuration resource for your application(s).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The following example shows how to set custom latency buckets.  For example if we are not too interested in very 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, in the case where you are not interested in extremely low latency values (1-10ms), you can group them in a single 10ms bucket. Similarly, you can group the high values in a single bucket (1000-5000 ms), while keeping more detail in the middle range of values that you are most interested in.
```

> low latency values details (1-10 milliseconds), we can group them in a single bucket 10 ms, and we can also group the higher values in a single bucket, while we can have more detail

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> in the middle range of values that we are most interested in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> We will replace the 34 buckets with a set of 11 buckets to group latency values with more accuracy in the middle range of values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following Configuration spec replaces the default 34 buckets with 11 buckets giving a higher level of granularity in the middle range of values:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Configuration
metadata:
  name: custom-metrics
spec:
    metrics:
        enabled: true
        latencyDistributionBuckets: [10, 25, 40, 50, 70, 100, 150, 200, 500, 1000, 5000]
```

> The current default provides a good accuracy for the percentiles, but you can adjust the buckets to better fit your 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> needs and reduce the cardinality of the metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> It is important to take note of your current latency values provided by the more detail Dapr default buckets and adjust the buckets accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

In this example, the HTTP method is excluded from the metrics, resulting in a single metric for all requests to the `/orders` endpoint.

### Configuring Custom Latency Histogram Buckets

> Dapr use cumulative histogram metrics to group latency values into buckets, where each bucket contains a count of the number of requests that had that latency plus all the requests with lower latency.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Dapr uses cumulative histogram metrics to group latency values into buckets, where each bucket contains:
- A count of the number of requests with that latency
- All the requests with lower latency
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Using the default latency bucket configurations 

```

By default, Dapr groups request latency metrics into the following buckets:

```
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 13, 16, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, 65, 80, 100, 130, 160, 200, 250, 300, 400, 500, 650, 800, 1000, 2000, 5000, 10000, 20000, 50000, 100000
```

Grouping latency values in a cumulative fashion allows buckets to be used or dropped as needed for increased or decreased granularity of data.

> For example if a request takes 3ms, it will be counted in the 3ms bucket, the 4ms bucket, the 5ms bucket, and so on.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if a request takes 3ms, it's counted in the 3ms bucket, the 4ms bucket, the 5ms bucket, and so on.
```

> Similarly, if a request takes 10ms, it will be counted in the 10ms bucket, the 13ms bucket, the 16ms bucket, and so on.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Similarly, if a request takes 10ms, it's counted in the 10ms bucket, the 13ms bucket, the 16ms bucket, and so on.
```

> After these two requests have completed, the 3ms bucket will have a count of 1 and the 10ms bucket will have a count of 2, since both the 3ms and 10ms requests are included here. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After these two requests have completed, the 3ms bucket has a count of 1 and the 10ms bucket has a count of 2, since both the 3ms and 10ms requests are included here. 
```

> This will show up as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This shows up as follows:
```

|1|2|3|4|5|6|8|10|13|16|20|25|30|40|50|65|80|100|130|160| ..... | 100000 |
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|---|---|---|-------|--------|
|0|0|1|1|1|1|1| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2| 2 | 2 | 2 | ..... | 2      |

> The default number of buckets works well for most use cases, but can be adjusted as needed. Each request will create 34 different metrics, leaving this value to grow considerably for a large number of applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default number of buckets works well for most use cases, but can be adjusted as needed. Each request creates 34 different metrics, leaving this value to grow considerably for a large number of applications.
```

More accurate latency percentiles can be achieved by increasing the number of buckets. However, a higher number of buckets increases the amount of memory used to store the metrics, potentially negatively impacting your monitoring system. 

> It is recommended to keep the number of latency buckets set to the default value, unless you are seeing unwanted memory pressure in your monitoring system. Configuring the number of buckets allows you to choose applications where you want to see more detail with a higher number of buckets, and where broader values are sufficient by reducing the buckets. Take note of the default latency values your applications are producing before configuring the number buckets as described below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is recommended to keep the number of latency buckets set to the default value, unless you are seeing unwanted memory pressure in your monitoring system. Configuring the number of buckets allows you to choose applications where:
- You want to see more detail with a higher number of buckets
- Broader values are sufficient by reducing the buckets

Take note of the default latency values your applications are producing before configuring the number buckets.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Customizing latency buckets to your scenario

```

> Tailor the latency buckets to your needs, by modifying the `spec.metrics.latencyDistributionBuckets` field in the Dapr configuration spec for your application(s).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tailor the latency buckets to your needs, by modifying the `spec.metrics.latencyDistributionBuckets` field in the [Dapr configuration spec]({{< ref configuration-schema.md >}}) for your application(s).
```

> For example, in the case where you are not interested in extremely low latency values (1-10ms), you can group them in a single 10ms bucket. Similarly, you can group the high values in a single bucket (1000-5000 ms), while keeping more detail in the middle range of values that you are most interested in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if you aren't interested in extremely low latency values (1-10ms), you can group them in a single 10ms bucket. Similarly, you can group the high values in a single bucket (1000-5000ms), while keeping more detail in the middle range of values that you are most interested in.
```

> The following Configuration spec replaces the default 34 buckets with 11 buckets giving a higher level of granularity in the middle range of values:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following Configuration spec example replaces the default 34 buckets with 11 buckets, giving a higher level of granularity in the middle range of values:
```

In this example, the HTTP method is excluded from the metrics, resulting in a single metric for all requests to the `/orders` endpoint.

> ### Configuring Custom Latency Histogram Buckets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring custom latency histogram buckets
```

Dapr uses cumulative histogram metrics to group latency values into buckets, where each bucket contains:
- A count of the number of requests with that latency
- All the requests with lower latency

> ### Using the default latency bucket configurations 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Using the default latency bucket configurations 
```
